# facial_recognition_with_PCA, ML & DL
This repository contains the source code of the project focused on training machine learning and deep learning models for facial recognition. Deep
learning-based methods usually shows better performance in terms of accuracy and speed of processing in image recognition compared to traditional machine learning methods. Here, in this work, both machine learning and deep learning approach were utilized. We noticed that although deep learning tends to perform better in this kind of computer vision tasks but if data is limited then Machine Learning gives quite appropriate performance as compared to deep learning. Accuracy of almost 71% was achieved with Machine Learning approach. Principle Component Analysis approach was also utilized to decrease data dimensionality while retaining maximum information. In Deep Learning approach, CNN architecture was used to extract distinctive facial characteristics and SoftMax classifier was used to classify faces within CNN's fully connected layer. Due to limited data, CNN model didn’t quite perform well on test data as compared to Machine Learning, but performance can
be improved by providing more data and applying dropoutregularization.
My research paper draft for this project can be view here : https://github.com/umairsiddique3171/Deep-Learning-Projects/blob/main/facial_recognition_with_PCA%2C%20ML%20%26%20DL/research_paper_draft.pdf
You can find the custom data for this project on my google drive : https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/17l-UupcHCmLlneBEvA5wrjoogt2I1YPJ?usp=sharing
<br>
Author : Umair Siddique